CATHOLIC

SAYs his Prayers often, but never prays, and 
worships the Cross more than Christ. He 
prefers his Church merely for the Antiquity of 
it, and cares not how sound or rotten it be, 
so it be but old. He takes a liking to it as 
some do to old Cheese, only for the blue Rottenness of it. If he had lived in the primitive 
Times he had never been a   Christian; for the 
Antiquity of the Pagan and Jewish   Religion 
would have had the same Power over him 
against the   Christian, as the old Roman has 
against the modern Reformation. The weaker 
Vessel he is, the better and more zealous Member 
he always proves of his Church; for Religion, 
like Wine, is not so apt to leak in a leathern 
Boraccio as a great Cask, and is better preserved in a small Bottle stopped with a light 
Cork, than a vessel of greater Capacity, where 
the spirits being more and stronger are the 
more apt to fret. He allows of all holy Cheats, 
and in content to be deluded in a true, orthodox, and infallible Way. He believes the Pope   
to be infallible, because he has deceived all the 
World, but was never deceived himself, which 
was grown so notorious, that nothing less than 
an Article of Faith in the Church would make 
a Plaster big enough for the sore. His Faith 
is too big for his Charity, and too unwieldy 
to work Miracles ; but is able to believe more 
than all the sainst in Heave ever made.  He 
worships sainst in Effigie, as   Dutchmen hand 
absent Malefactors ; and has so weak a Memory, that he is apt to forget his Patrons, 
unless their Pictures prevent him. He loves 
so see what he prays to, that he may not mistake one saint for another ; and his Beads and 
Crucifix are the Tools of his Devotion, without which it can do nothing. Nothing staggers 
his Faith of the   Pope's   Infallibility so much, 
as that he did not make away the scriptures, 
when they were in his Power, rather than 
those that believed in them, which he knows 
not how to understand to be no Error. The 
less he understands of his Religion, the more 
violent he is in it, which, being the perpetual 
Condition of all those are deluded, is a  
great Argument that he is mistaken. His Religion is of no Force without Ceremonies, like 
a Loadstone that draws a greater Weight 
through a Piece of Iron, than when it is naked 
of it self. His Prayers are a kind of Crambe 
that used to kill schoolmasters ; and he values 
them by Number, not Weight. 