CURIOUS MAN

VALUES things not by their Use or
Worth, but Scarcity. He is very tender
and scrupulous of his Humour, as Fantatics  
are of their Consciences, and both for the most
part in Trifles. He cares not how unuseful
any Thing be, so it be but unusual and rare.
He collects all the Curiousities he can light upon
in Art or Nature, not to inform his own
Judgement, but to catch the Admiration of others, which he believes he has a Right to, because the Rarities are his own. That which
other Men neglect he believes they oversee,
and stores up Trifles as rare Discoveries, at least
of his own Wit and Sagacity. He admires
subtleties above all Things, because the more
subtle they are, the nearer they are to nothing;
and values no Art but that which is spun so
thin, that it is of no Use at all. He had rather
have an iron Chain hung about the Neck of a
Flea, than an Alderman's of Gold, and Homer's Iliads in a Nutshel than Alexander's Cabinet. He had rather have the twelve Apostles
on a Cherry-Stone, than those on St. Peter's  
Portico, and would willingly sell Christ again
for the numerical Piece of Coin, that Judas  
took for him. His perpetual Dotage upon
Curiousities at length renders him one of them,
and he shews himself as none fo the meanest
of his Rarities. He so much affects Singularity, that rather than follow the Fashion, that
is used by the rest of the World, he will wear
dissenting Cloaths with odd fantastic Devices
to distinguish himself form others, like Marks
set upon Cattle. He cares not what Pains he
throws away upon the meanest Trifle, so it be
but strange, while some pity, and others laugh
at his ill-employed Industry. He is one of
those, that valued Epictetus's Lamp above the
excellent Book he writ by it. If he be a Bookman he spends all his Time and Study upon
Things that are never to be known. The
  Philosopher's Stone and universal Medicine cannot
possibly miss him, though he is sure to do them.
He is wonderfully taken with abstruse Knowledge, and had rather hand to Truth with a
Pair of Tongs wrapt up in Mysteries and Hieroglyphics, than touch it with his Hands, or see
it plainly demonstrated to his Senses.
