A 
HUFFING COURTIER

Is a Cypher, that has no Value himself, but 
from the Place he stands in.  All his Happiness consists in the Opinion he believes others 
have of it.   This is his Faith, but as it is heretical and erroneous, though he suffer much 
Tribulation for it, he continues obstinate, and 
not to be convinced. He flutters up and down 
like a Butterfly in a Garden ; and while he is 
pruning of his Peruque takes Occasion to contemplate his  Legs, and the symmetry of his 
Britches.  He is part of the Furniture of the 
Rooms, and serves for a walking Picture, a 
moving Piece of Arras.  His Business is only 
to be seen, and he performs it with admirable 
Industry, placing himself always in the best 
Light, looking wonderfully Politic, and cautious whom he mixes withal. His Occupation 
is to show his Cloaths, and if they could but 
walk themselves, they would save him the  
Labour, and do his Work as well as himself. 
His Immunity from Varlets is his Freehold, 
and he were a lost Man without it.  His 
Cloaths are but his Taylor's Livery, which he 
gives him, for ’tis ten to one he never pays for 
them.  He is very careful to discover the Lining 
of his Coat, that you may not suspect any 
Want of Integrity of Flaw in him from the 
skin outwards.  His Taylor is his Creator, 
and makes him of nothing ; and though he 
lives by Faith in him, he is perpetually committing Iniquities against him. His soul dwells 
in the Outside of him, like that of a hollow 
Tree ; and if you do but pill the Bark off him 
he deceases immediately.  His Carriage of 
himself is the wearing of his Cloaths, and, 
like the Cinamon Tree, his Bark is better than 
his Body.  His looking big is rather a Tumor, 
than Greatness.  He is an Idol, that has just 
so much Value, as other Men give him that 
believe in him, but none of his own.  He 
makes his Ignorance pass for Reserve, and, like 
a Hunting-nag, leaps over what he cannot get 
through.  He has just so much of Politics, as 
Hostlers in the University have *Latin*.  He is 
as humble as a Jesuit to his superior ; but repays himself again in Insolence over those, that 
are below him ; and with a generous scorn 
despises those, that can neither do him good, 
nor hurt.  He adores those, that may do him 
good, though he knows they never will; and 
despises those, that would not hurt him, if 
they could.  The Court is his Church, and he 
believes as that believes, and cries up and down 
every Thing, as he finds it pass there.  It is a 
great Comfort to him to think, that some who 
do not know him may perhaps take him for a 
Lord ; and while that Thought lasts he looks 
bigger than usual, and forgets his Acquaintance; and that's the Reason why he will sometimes know you, and sometimes not.  Nothing 
but want of Money or Credit puts him in 
mind that he is mortal ; but then he trusts 
Providence that somebody will trust him; and 
in Expectation of that hopes for a better Life, 
and that his Debts will never rise up in Judgment against him.  To get in debt is to labour 
in his Vocation ; but to pay is to forfeit his 
Protection ; for what’s that worth to one that 
owes Nothing ?  His Employment being only to 
wear his Cloaths, the whole Account of his 
Life and Actions is recorded in shopkeepers 
Books, that are his faithful Historiographers to 
their own Posterity ; and he believes he loses 
so much Reputation, as he pays off his Debts; 
and that no Man wears his Cloaths in Fashion, 
that pays for them, for noting is further from 
the Mode.  He believes that he that runs in 
Debt is beforehand with those that trust him, 
and only those, that pay, are behind.  His 
Brains are turned giddy, like one that walks 
on the Top of a House ; and that’s the Reason 
it is so troublesome to him to look downwards. 
He is a Kind of spectrum, and his Cloaths are 
the shape he takes to appear and walk in; and 
when he puts them off he vanishes.  He runs 
as busily out of one Room into another, as a 
great Practiser does in Westminster Hall from 
one Court to another. When he accosts a 
Lady he puts both Ends of his Microcosm in 
Motion, by making Legs at one End, and 
combing his Peruque at the other.  His Garniture is the sauce to his Cloaths, and he walks 
in his Portcannons like one, that stalks in long 
Grass.  Every Motion of him crys *Vanity of* 
*Vanities, all is Vanity,* quoth the Preacher.  He 
rides himself like a well-managed Horse, reins 
in his Neck, and walks *Terra Terra*.  He 
carries his elbows backward, as if he were 
pinioned like a trust-up Fowl, and moves as 
stiff as if he was upon the spit.  His Legs are 
stuck in his great voluminous Britches, like 
the Whistles in a Bagpipe, those abundant 
Britches, in which his nether Parts are not 
cloathed, but packt up.  His Hat has been long 
in a Consumption of the Fashion, and is now 
almost worn to Nothing ; if it do not recover 
quickly it will grown too little for a Head of 
Garlick.  He wears Garniture on the Toes of 
his shoes to justify his Prentensions to the Gout, 
or such other Malady, that for the Time being 
is most in Fashion or Request.  When he 
salutes a Friend he pulls off his Hat, as Women do their Vizard-Masques.  His Ribbons 
are of the true Complexion of his Mind, a 
Kind of painted Cloud or gawdy Rainbow, 
that has no Colour of it self, but what is borrows from Reflection.  He is as tender of his 
Cloaths, as a Coward is of his Flesh, and as 
loth to have them disordered.  His Bravery 
is all his Happiness ; and like *Atlas* he carries 
his Heaven on his Back.  He is like the golden 
Fleece, a fine Outside on a sheep’s Back.  He 
is a Monster or an *Indian* Creature, that is 
good for nothing in the World but to be seen. 
He puts himself up into a sedan, like a Fiddle 
in a Case, and is taken out again for the Ladies to play upon, who when they have done 
with him, let down his treble-string, till they 
are in the Humour again.  His Cook and Valet de Chambre conspire to dress Dinner and 
him so punctually together, that the one may 
not be ready before the other.  As Peacocks and 
Ostridges have the gaudiest and finest Feathers, 
yet cannot fly;  so all his Bravery is to flutter 
only.  The Beggars call him *my Lord,* and he 
takes them at their Words, and pays them for 
it.  If you praise him, he is so true and faithful to the Mode, that he never fails to make 
you a Present of himself, and will not be refused, tho’ you know not what to do with him 
when you have him. 
