MELANCHOLY MAN 

Is one, that keeps the worst Company in the 
World, that is, his own; and tho' he be always falling out and quarrelling with himself, 
yet he has not power to endure any other Conversation. His Head is haunted, like a House, 
with evil Spirits and Apparitions, that terrify 
and fright him out of himself, till he stands 
empty and forsaken. His Sleeps and his Wakings are so much the same, that he knows not 
how to distinguish them, and many times 
when he dreams, he believes he is broad awake 
and sees Visions. The Fumes and Vapours 
that rise from his Spleen and Hypocondries 
have so smutched and sullied his Brain (like a 
Room that smoaks) that his Understanding is 
blear-ey'd, and has no right Perception of any 
Thing. His Soul lives in his Body, like a 
Mole in the Earth, that labours in the Dark, 
and casts up Doubts and Scruples of his own 
Imagination, to make that rugged and uneasy, 
that was plain and open before. His Brain is 
so cracked, that he fancies himself to be Glass, 
and is afraid that every Thing he comes near 
should break him in Pieces. Whatsoever makes 
an Impression in his Imagination works it self 
in like a Screw, and the more he turns and 
winds it, the deeper it sticks, till it is never to 
be got out again. The Temper of his Brain 
being earthy, cold, and dry, is apt to breed 
Worms, that sink so deep into it, no Medicine 
in Art or Nature is able to reach them. He 
leads his Life, as one leads a Dog in a Slip 
that will not follow, but is dragged along until 
he is almost hanged, as he has it often under 
Consideration to treat himself in convenient 
Time and Place, if he can but catch himself 
alone. After a long and mortal Feud between 
his inward and his outward Man, they at 
length agree to meet without Seconds, and decide the 
Quarrel, in which the one drops, and the 
other sinks out fo the Way, and makes his 
Escape into some foreign World, from whence 
is it never after heard of. He converses with 
nothing so much as his own Imagination, 
which being apt to misrepresent Things to him, 
makes him believe, that it is something else 
than it is, and that he holds Intelligence with 
Spirits, that reveal whatsoever he fancies to 
him, as the antient rude People, that first heard 
their own Voices repeated by Echoes in the 
Woods, concluded it must proceed from some 
invisible Inhabitants of those solitary Places, 
which they after believed to be Gods, and 
called them   Sylvans, Fauns,   and   Dryads. He 
makes the Infirmity of his Temper pass for 
Revelations, as   Mahomet   did by his falling 
Sickness, and inspires himself with the Wind 
of his own Hypocondries. He laments, like 
  Heraclitus   the Maudlin Philosopher, at other 
Men's Mirth, and take Pleasures in nothing 
but his own un-sober Sadness. His Mind is 
full of Thoughts, but they are all empty, like 
a Nest of Boxes. He sleeps little, but dreams 
much, and soundest when he is waking. He 
sees Visions further off than a second-sighted 
Man in   Scotland,   and dreams upon a hard 
Point with admirable Judgement. He is just 
so much worse than a Madman, as he is below 
him in Degree of Frenzy; for among Madmen 
the most mad govern all the rest, and receive 
a natural Obedience from their Inferiors. 
