POPISH PRIEST

Is one that takes the same Course,  that the 
Devil did in Paradise, he begins with the 
Woman. He Despises all other  Fanatics as Upstarts, and values himself upon his Antiquity. 
He is a Man-Midwife to the Soul, and is all 
his Life-time in this World deluding it to the 
next. Christ made St. Peter a Fisher of Men ; 
but he believe it better to be a Fisher of Women, and so becomes a Woman's Apostle. 
His Profession is to disguise himself, which he 
does in Sheeps-Cloathing, that is, a Lay Habit ; 
but whether, as a Wolf, a Thief or a Shepherd, is a great Question ; only this is certain, 
that he had rather hanv one Sheep out of another Man's Fold, that two out of his own. 
He gathers his Church as Fantaics do, yet despises them for it, and keeps his Flock always in 
Hurdles, to be removed at his Pleasure ; and 
though their Souls be rotten or scabby with 
Hypocrisy, the Fleece is sure to be sound and 
orthodox. He tars their Consciences with 
Confession and Penance, but always keeps the 
Wool, that he pulls from the Sore, to himself. 
He never makes a Posclyte, but he converts   
him to his very Shirt, and turns his Pockets 
into the Bargain ; for he does nothing unless 
his Purse prove a good Catholic. He never gets 
within a Family, but he gets on the Top of it, 
and governs all down to the Bottom of the 
Cellar--He will not tolerate the Scullion unless he be othrodox, nor allow of the turning 
of the Spit, but in ordine ad Spiritualia. His 
  Dominion is not founded in Grace, but Sin ; for he 
keeps his Subjects in perfect Awe by being 
acquainted with their most sacred Iniquities, 
as Juvenal said of the Greeks.   
  
By this means he holds Intelligence with their 
own Consciences against themselves, and keeps 
their very Thoughts in Slavery ; for Men commonly fear those that know any Evil of them, 
and out of Shame give Way to them. He is 
very cautious in venturing to attack any Man 
by Way of Conversion, whose Weakness he is 
not very well acquainted with ; and like the 
Fox, weighs his Goose, before he will venture 
to carry him over a River. He fights with the 
  Devil at his own Weapons, and strives to get 
ground on him with Frauds and Lies--These 
he convers to pious Uses. He makes his 
Prayers (the proper Business of the Mind) a 
Kind of Manufacture, and vents them by Tale, 
rather than Weight ; and, while he is busied 
in numbering them, forgets their Sense and 
Meaning. He sets them up as Men do their 
Games at Picquet, for fear he should be misreckoned; but never minds whether he plays 
fair or not. He sells Indulgences, like Lockier's   
Pills, with Directions how they are to be taken. 
He is but a Copyholder of the Catholic Church, 
that claims by Custom. He believes that Pope's   
Chain is fastened to the Gates of Heaven, like 
King Harry's in the Privy-Gallery.

