
PROUD MAN

Is a Fool in Fermentation, that swells and 
boils over like a Porridge-Pot.  He sets out 
his Feathers like an Owl, to swell and seem 
bigger than he is.  He is troubled with a Tumour and Inflammation of self-Conceit, that 
renders every Part of him stiff and uneasy. 
He has given himself sympathetic Love-Powder, that works upon him to Dotage, and has 
transformed him into his own Mistress.  He 
is his own Gallant, and makes most passionate 
Addresses to his own dear Perfections.  He 
commits Idolatry to himself, and worships 
his own Image ; though there is no soul living 
of his Church but himself, yet he believes as 
the Church believes, and maintains his Faith 
with the Obstinacy of a *Fanatic.*  He is his own 
Favourite, and advance himself not only above 
his Merit, but all Mankind ; is both *Damon* 
and *Pythias* to his own dear self, and values his 
Crony above his soul.  He gives Place to no 
Man but himself, and that with very great 
Distance to all others, whom he esteems not 
worthy to approach him.  He believes whatsoever he has receives a Value in being his; 
as a Horse in a Nobleman’s stable will bear a 
greater Price than in a common Market.  He 
is so proud, that he is as hard to be acquainted 
with himself as with others ; for he is very 
apt to forget who he is, and knows himself 
only superficially ; therefore he treats himself 
civilly as a stranger with Ceremony and Compliment, but admits of no Privacy.  He strives 
to look bigger than himself, as well as others, 
and is no better than his own Parasite and 
Flatterer.  A little Flood will make a shallow 
Torrent swell above its Banks, and rage, and 
foam, and yield a roaring Noise, while a deep 
silent stream glides quietly on.  so a vainglorious insolent proud Man swells with a little 
frail Prosperity, grows big and loud, and overflows his Bounds, and when he sinks, leaves 
Mud and Dirt behind him.  His Carriage is 
as glorious and haughty, as if he were advanced upon Men’s shoulders, or tumbled over 
their Heads like Knipperdolling.  He fancies  
himself a Colosse, and so he is, for his Head 
holds no Proportion to his Body, and his foundation is lesser than his upper stories.  We 
can naturally take no view of our selves, unless we look downwards, to teach us how 
humble Admirers we ought to be of our own 
Values.  The slighter and less solid his Materials are, the more Room they take up, and 
make him swell the bigger ; as Feathers and 
Cotton will stuff Cushions better than Things 
of more close and solid Parts. 

