
QUIBBLER

Is a Jugler of Words, that shows Tricks
with them, to make them appear what they
were not meant for, and serve two senses at
once, like one that plays on two fews Trumps. 
He is a Fencer of Language, that falsisies his
Blow, and hits where he did not aim. He
Has a foolish slight of Wit, that catches at
Words only, and lets the sense go, like the
young Thief in the Farce, that took a Purse, 
but gave the Owner his Money back again. 
He is so well versed in all Cafes of Quibble,
that he knows when there will be a Blot upon
a Word, as soon as it is out. He packs his
Quibbles like a stock of Cards, let him but
shuffle, and cut where you will, he will be
sure to have it.  He dances on a Rope of sand,
does the somerset, strapado, and half-slrapado
with Words, plays at all manner of Games
with Clinches, Carwickets, and Quibbles, and
talks under-Leg. His Wit is left-handed, and
therefore what others mean for right, he apprehends quite contrary. All his Conceptions
are produced by equivocal Generation, which
makes them justly esteemed but Maggots. He
rings the Changes upon Words, and is so expert, that he can tell at first sight, how
many Variations any Number of Words will
bear. He talks with a Trillo, and gives his
Words a double Relish. He had rather have
them bear two senses in vain and impertinently, than one to the Purpose, and never speaks
without a Lere-sense. He talks nothing but
Equivocation and mental Reservation, and
mightily affects to give a Word a double stroke, 
like a Tennis-Ball against two Walls at one
Blow, to defeat the Expectation of his Antagonift. He commonly slurs every fourth or
fifth Word, and seldom fails to throw Doublets. There are two sorts of Quibbling, the
one with Words, and the other with sense, 
like the Rhetoricians Figurae Dictionis & Figurae
senteniae — The first is already cried down,
and the other as yet prevails; and is the only
Elegance of our modern Poets, which easy
Judges call Easiness; but having nothing in it
But Easiness, and being never used by any lasting Wit, will in wiser Times fall to nothing of
itssels. 






