
RIBALD

Is the Devil’s Hypocrite, the endeavours to
make himself appear worse than he is.  His
evil Words and bad Manners strive which
shall most corrupt one another, and it is hard
to say which has the Advantage.  He vents
his Lechery at the Mouth, as some Fishes are
said to engender.  He is an unclean Beast that
chews the Cud ; for after he has satisfied his
Lust, he brings it up again into his Mouth
to a second Enjoyment, and plays an Aftergame of Letchery with his Tongue much worse
than that which the Cunnilingi used among the
old Romans.  He strips Nature stark-naked, and
clothes her in the most fantastic and ridiculous
Fashion a wild Imagination can invent.  He
is worse and more nasty than a Dog ; for
in his broad Descriptions of others obscene
Actions he does but lick up the Vomit of another Man’s surfeits.  He tells Tales out of a
vaulting school.  A leud baudy Tale does
more Hurt, and gives a worse Example than
the Thing of which it was told ; for the Act
extends but to a few, and if it be concealed
goes no further ; but the Report of it is unlimited, and may be conveyed to all People,
and all Times to come.  He exposes that with
his Tongue, which Nature gave Women Modesty, and brute Beasts Tails to cover.  He
mistakes Ribaldry for Wit, though nothing is
more unlike, and believes himself to be the
finer Man the filthier he talks ; as if he were
above Civility, as Fanatics are above Ordinances, and held nothing more shameful than to be
ashamed of any Thing.  He talks nothing but
Aretine’s Pictures, as plain as the scotch Dialect, which is esteemed to be the most copious
and elegant of the Kind.  He improves and
husbands his sins to the best Advantage,
and makes one Vice find Employment for
another ; for what he acts loosely in private,
he talks as loosely of in public, and finds as
much Pleasure in the one as the other.  He
endeavours to make himself satisfaction for
the Pangs his Claps and Botches put him to with
vapouring and bragging how he came by
them.  He endeavours to purchase himself a
Reputation by pretending to that which the
best Men abominate, and the worst value not,
like one that clips and washes false Coin, and
ventures his Neck for that which will yield
him nothing.

