A 
WOOER

sTANDs Candidate for Cuckold, and if
he miss of it, it is none of his Fault; for
his Merit is sussiciently known. He is com
monly no Lover, but able to pass for a most
desperate one, where he finds it is like to prove
of considerable Advantage to him; and therefore has Passions lying by him of all sizes proportionable to all Women’s Fortunes, and can
be indifferent, melancholy, or stark-mad, according as their Estates give him Occasion; and
when he finds it is to no Purpose, can presently
come to himself again, and try another. He 
prosecutes his suit against his Mistress as Clients
do a suit in Law, and does nothing without
the Advice of his learned Council, omits no
Advantage for want of soliciting, and, when
He gets her Consent, overthrows her. He endeavors to match his Estate, rather than himself, to the best Advantage, and is his Mistress’s Fortune and his do but come to an
Agreement, their Persons are easily satissied, the
Match is soon made up, and a Cross Marriage
between all four is prefestly concluded. He is
not much concerned in his Lady’s Virtues, for if
the Opinion of the stoics be true, that the virtuous are always rich, there is no doubt, but she
that is rich must be virtuous. He never goes
without a List in his Pocket of all the Widows
and Virgins about the Town, with Particulars
of their Jointures, Portions, and Inheritances,
that if one miss he may not be without a Reserve; for he esteems Cupid very improvident,
if he has not more than two strings to his
Bow. When he wants a better Introduction,
he begins his Addresses to the Chamber-maid,
like one that sues the Tenant to eject the Landlord, and according as he thrives there makes
his Approaches to the Mistress. He can tell
readily what the Difference is between Jointure with Tution of Infant, Land and
Money of any Value, and what the Odds is
to a Penny between them all, either to take or
leave. He does not so much go a wooing as
put in his Claim, as if all Men of Fortune
had a fair Title to all Women of the fame
Quality, and therefore are said to demand them
in Marriage. But if he be a Wooer of Fortune, that designs to raise himsels by it, he
makes wooing his Vocation, deals with all
Matchmakers, that are his setters, is very
painful in his Calling, and, if he Business succeed, 
steals her away and commits Matrimony with a selonious Intent.  He has a great
desire to beget Money on the Body of a Woman, and as for other Issue is very indifferent,
and cares not how old she be, so she be not past
Money-bearing.







