Astrologer

Is one that expounds upon the Planets, and 
teaches to construe the Accidents  by the due 
joining of stars in Construction. He talks with 
them by dumb signs, and can tell what they 
mean by their twinckling, and squinting upon 
one another, as well as they themselves.  He 
is a spy upon the stars, and can tell what they 
are doing, by the Company they keep, and the 
Houses they frequent. They have no Power to 
do any Thing alone, until so many meet, as 
will make a Quorum.He is Clerk of the Com- 
mittee to them, and draws up all their Orders, 
that concern either public or private Affairs. 
He keeps all their Accompts for them, and 
sums them up, not by Debtor, but by Creditor 
alone, a more compendious Way. They do 
ill to make them have so much Authority over 
the Earth, which, perhaps, has as much as 
any one of them but the sun, and as much 
Right to sit and vote in their Councils, as any 
other : But because there are but seven Electors 
of the German Empire, they will allow of no 
more to dispose of all other ; and most foolishly 
and unnaturally depose their own Parent of its 
Inheritance; rather than acknowledge a Defect 
in their own Rules.  These Rules are all they 
have to shew for their Title ; and yet not one 
of them can tell whether those they had them 
from came honestly by them.  Virgil's Des- 
cription of Fame, that reaches from Earth 
to the stars, tam ficti pravique tenax, to carry 
Lies and Knavery, will serve Astrologers with- 
out any sensible Variation.  He is a Fortune- 
seller, a Retailer of Destiny, and petty Chap- 
man to the Planets.  He casts Nativities as 
Gamesters do false Dice, and by slurring and 
palming sextile, quartile, and trine, like size, 
quater, trois, can throw what chance he 
pleases.  He sets a Figure, as Cheats do a Main 
at Hazard ; and Gulls throw away their Money 
at it.  He festches the Grounds of his Art so 
far off, as well from Reason, as the stars, that, 
like a Traveller, he is allowed to lye by Au- 
thority.  And as Beggars, that have no Money 
themselves, believe all others have, and beg 
of those, that have as little as themselves : so 
the ignorant Rabble believe in him, though 
he has no more Reason for what he professes, 
than they. 
