AMORIsT 
 
Is an Artificer, or Maker of Love, a sworn 
servant to all Ladies, like an Officer in a 
Corporation. Though no one in particular 
will own any Title to him, yet he never fails, 
upon all Occasions, to offer his services, and 
they as seldom to turn it back again untouched. 
He commits nothing with them, but himself to 
their good Graces ; and they recommend him 
back again to his own, where he finds so kind 
a Reception, that he wonders how he does 
fail of it every where else.  His Passion is as 
easily set on Fire as a Fart, and as soon out 
again. He is charged an primed with Love
Powder like a Gun, and the least sparkle of an 
Eye gives Fire to him, and off he goes, but 
seldom, or never, hits the Mark.  He has common Places and Precedents of Repartees and 
Letters for all Occasions ; and falls as readily 
into his Method of making love, as a Parson 
does into his Form of Matrimony. He converses, as Angela are said to do, by Intuition,
and expresses himself by sighs most significantly.  He follows his Visits, as Men do their
Business, and is very industrious in waiting on
the Ladies, where his Affairs lie ; among which
those of greatest Concernment are *Questions and
Commands, Purposes,* and other such received
Forms of With and Conversation ; in which he
is so deeply studied, that in all Questions and
Doubts that arise, he is appealed to, and very
learnedly declares, which was the most true and
primitive Way of proceeding in the purest
Times. For these Virtues he never fails of his
summons to all Balls, where he manages the
Country-Dances with singular Judgment, and
is frequently an Assistant at L'hombre; and these
are all the Uses they make of his Parts, beside
the sport they give themselves in laughing at
him, which he takes for singular Favours, and
interprets to his own Advantage, though it
never goes further; for all his Employments
being public, he is never admitted to any private services, and they despise him as not Woman's Meat: For he applies to too many to be
trusted by any one; as Bastards by having
many Fathers, have none at all. He goes often
mounted in a Coach as a Convoy, to guard the 
Ladies, to take the Dust in *Hyde-Park*; where 
by his prudent Management of the Glass Windows he secures them from Beggars, and returns fraught with China-Oranges and Ballads. 
Thus he is but a Gentleman-Usher General, 
and his Business is to carry one Lady's services 
to another, and bring back the others in Exchange. 