# AN 
ANTIQUARY

Is one that has his Being in this Age, but 
his Life and Conversation is in the Days of 
old.  He despises the present Age as an Innovation, and slights the future ; but has a great 
Value for that, which is past and gone, like 
the Madman, that fell in Love with *Cleopatra. 
He is an old frippery-Philosopher, that has 
so strange a natural Affection to wormeaten 
speculation, that it is apparent he has a Worm 
in his skull.  He honours his Forefathers and 
Fore-mothers, but condemns his Parents as 
too modern, and no better than Upstarts.  He 
neglects himself, because he was born in his 
own Time, and so far off Antiquity, which 
he so much admires ; and repines, like a 
younger Brother, because he came so late into 
the World.  He spends the one half of his 
Time in collecting old insignificant Trifles, 
  and the other in shewing them, which he takes 
  singular Delight in; because the oftener he does 
  it, the further they are from being new to him. 
  All his Curiousities take place of one another 
  according to their seniority, and he values 
  them not by their Abilities, but their standing. 
  He has a great Veneration for Words that are 
  stricken in Years, and are grown so aged, that 
  they have out-lived their Employments These 
  he uses with a Respect agreeable to their Antiquity, and the good services they have done. 
  He throws away his Time in enquiring after 
  that which is past and gone so many Ages since, 
  like one that shoots away an Arrow, to find 
  out another that was lost before.  He fetches 
  things out of Dust and Ruins, like the Fable 
  of the chymical Plant raised out of its own 
  Ashes.  He values one old Invention, that is 
  lost and never to be recovered, before all the 
  new ones in the World, tho’ never so useful. 
  The whole Business of his Life is the same with 
  his, that shows the Tombs at *Westminster*, only 
  the one does it for his Pleasure, and the other 
  for Money.  As every Man has but one Father, but two Grand-Fathers and a World 
  of Ancestors ; so he has a proportional Value 
  for Things that are antient, and the further off 
the greater.
   He is a great Time-server, but it is of Time 
out of Mind, to which he conforms exactly, 
but is wholly retied from the present.  His 
Days were spent and gone long before he came 
into the World, and since his only Business is 
to collect what he can out of the Ruins of 
them.  He has so strong a natural Affection to 
any Thing that is old, that he may truly say to 
*Dust and Worms you are my Father, and to Rottenness thou are my Mother*.  He has no Providence nor Fore-sight; for all his Contemplations look backward upon the Days of old, 
and his Brains are turned with them, as if he 
walked backwards.  He had rather interpret 
one obscure Word in any old senseless Discourse, than be the Author of the most ingenious 
new one; and with *scaliger* would sell the 
Empire of Germany (if it were in his Power) 
for an old song. He devours an old Manuscript with greater Relish than Worms and Moths 
do, and, though there be nothing in it, values 
it above any Thing printed, which he accounts 
but a Novelty.  When he happens to cure a 
small Botch in an old Author, he is as proud 
of it, as if he had got the Philosophers stone, 
and could cure all the Diseases of Mankind. 
He values things wrongfully upon their Antiquity, forgetting that the most modern are 
really the most ancient of all Things in the 
World, like those that reckon their Pounds 
before their shillings and Pence, of which they 
are made up.  He esteems no Customs but such 
as have outlived themselves, and are long since 
out of Use ; as the *Catholics* allow of no saints, 
but such as are dead, and the *Fanatics*, Opposition, of none but the Living. 