An
Impudent Man

Is one, whose want of Money and want of
Wit have engaged him beyond his Abilities.
The little Knowledge he has of himself being
suitable to the little he has in his Profession has
Made him believe himself fit for it. This double
Ignorance has made him set a Value upon himself, as he that wants a great deal appears in a
better Condition, than he that wants a little.
This renders him confident, and fit for any
Undertaking, and sometimes (such is the concurrent Ignorance of the World) he prospers
In it, but oftner miscarries, and becomes ridiculous; yet this Advantage he has, that as
nothing can make him see his Error, so he is
fortified with his Ignorance, as barren and
rocky Places are by their situation, and he will
rather believe that all Men want Judgment,
than himself. For as no Man is pleased, that
has an ill Opinion of himsels, Nature, that
finds out Remedies herself, and his own Ease
render him indefensible of his Defects¬—From
hence he grows impudent; for as Men judge
by Comparison, he knows as little what it is
To be defective, as what it is to be excellent.
Nothing renders Men modest, but a just Knowledge how to compare themselves with others;
and where that is wanting, Impudence supplies
the Place of it: for there is no Vacuum in the
Minds of Men, and commonly, like other
Things in Nature, they swell more with Rarefaction than Condensation. The more Men
know of the World, the worse Opinion they
have of it; and the more they understand of
Truth, they are better acquainted with the
Difficulties of it, and conssequently are the less
confident in their Assertions, especially in matters of Probability, which commonly is squintey’d, and looks nine Ways at once. It is the
Office of a just Judge to hear both Paries, and
he that considers but the one side of Things
can never make a just Judgment, though he
may by Chance a true one. Impudence is the
Bastard of Ignorance, not only unlawfully,
but incestoussly begotten by a Man upon his
own Understanding, and laid by himsels at
his own Door, a Monster of unnatural Production; for shame is as much the Propriety
of human Nature (though overseen by the
Philossophers) and perhaps more than Reason,
Laughing, or looking asquint, by which they
distinguish Man from Beasts; and the less
Men have of it, the nearer they approach to
the Nature of Brutes. Modesty is but a noble
Jealousy of Honour, and Impudence the Prostitution of it; for he, whose Face is proof
against Infamy, must be as little sensible of
Glory. His Forehead, like a voluntary Cuckold’s is by his Horns made Proof against a
Blush. Nature made Man barefaced, and civil
Custom has preserved him so; but he that’s impudent does wear a Vizard more ugly and deformed than Highway Thieves disguise themselves with. shame is the tender moral Conscience of good Men. When there is a Crack
In the skull, Nature herself with a tough horny
Callus repairs the Breach; so a flaw’d Intellect
Is with a brawny Callus Face supplied. The
Face is the Dial of the Mind; and where they
Do not go together, ‘tis a sign, that one or
Both are out of Order. He that is impudent
is like a Merchant, that trades upon his Credit without a stock, and if his Debts were
known, would break immediately. The Inside
of his Head is like the Outside; and his Peruke
as naturally of his own Growth, as his Wit.
He passes in the World like a Piece of Counterfeit Coin, looks well enough until he is rubbed
and worn with Use, and then his Copper Complexion begins to appear, and nobody will take
Him, but by Owl-light.






