[two rules]

An
Imitator

Is a counterfeit stone, and the larger and
fairer he appears the more apt he is to be
discovered, whilst small ones, that pretend to
no great Value, pass unsuspected. He is made
like a Man in Arras-Hangings, after some great
Master’s Design, though far short of the Original. He is like a spectrum or walking
spirit that assumes the shape of some particular
Pesson, and appears in the Likeness of something that he is not, because he has no shape
of his own to put on. He has a Kind of
Monkey and Baboon Wit, that takes after some
Man’s Way, whom he endeavors to imitate,
but does it worsse than those Things that are naturally his own; for he does not learn but
take his Pattern out, as a Girl does her sampler. His whole Life is nothing but a Kind of
Education, and he is always learning to be
something that he is not, nor ever will be: For
Nature is free, and will not be forced out of
her Way, nor compelled to do any Thing
against her own Will and Inclination. He is
but a Retainer to Wit, and a Follower of his
Master, whose Badge he wears every where,
and therefore his Way is called servile Imitation.
His Fancy is like the innocent Lady’s; who by
looking on the Picture of a Moor that hung
in her Chamber conceived a Child of the same
Complexion; for all his Conceptions are produced by the Pictures of other Men’s Imaginations, and by their Features betray whose
Bastards they are. His Muse is not inspired
but infected with another Man’s Fancy; and
he catches his Wit, like the Itch, of somebody
else that had it before, and when he writes he
does but scratch himself. His Head is, like
his Hat, fashioned upon a Block, and wrought
in a shape of another Man’s Invention. He
melts down his Wit, and casts it in a Mold:
and as metals melted and cast are not so firm
and solid, as those that are wrought with the 
Hammer; so those Compositions, that are
founded and run in other Men’s Molds, are
always more brittle and loose than those, that
are forged in a Man’s own Brain. He binds
himself Prentice to a Trade, which he has no
stock to set up with, if he should serve out his
Time, and live to be made free. He runs a
whoring after another Man’s Inventions (for he
has none of his own to tempt him to an incontinent Thought) and begets a Kind of Mungrel Breed, that never comes to good.



