CORRUPT JUDGE

Passes Judgement as a Gamester does 
false Dice. The first Thing he takes is 
his Oath and his Comission, and afterwards 
the strongest side and Bribes.  He gives Judgment, as the Council at the Bar are said to give 
Advice, when they are paid for it. He wraps 
himself warm in Furs, that the cold Air may 
not strike his Conscience inward.  He is never 
an upright Judge, but when he is weary of 
sitting, and stands for his Ease.  Al the Use 
he make of his Oath is to oppose it against 
his Prince, for whose service he first took it, 
and to bind him with that, which he first pretended to bind himself with; as if the King by 
imparting a little of his Power to him gave 
hi to Title to all the rest, like those who holding a little Land in *Capite* render all the rest 
liable to the same Tenure.  As for that which 
concerns the People, he takes his Liberty to do 
what he pleases ; this he maintains with Canting, of which himself being the only Judge, 
he can give it what arbitrary Interpretation he 
pleases ; yet is a great Enemy to arbitrary 
Power, because he would have no Body use it 
but himself.  If he have Hope of Preferment 
he makes all the Law run on the King's side ; 
if not, it always takes part against him ; for as 
he was bred to make any Thing right or wrong 
between Man and Man, so he can do between 
the King and his subjects.  He calls himself 
*Capitalis, &c.* which Word he never uses but 
to Crimes of the higest Nature. He usurps 
unsufferable Tyranny over Words ; for when 
he has enslaved and debased them from their 
original sense, he makes them serves against 
themselves to support him, and their own 
Abuse. He is as stiff to Delinquents, and 
makes as harsh a Noise as a new Cart-wheel, 
until he is greased, and then he turns about as 
easily.  He called all neccessary and unavoidable 
Proceedings of state, without the punctual 
Formality of Law, arbitrary and illegal, but 
never considers, that his own Interpretation 
of Law are more arbitrary, and, when he 
pleases, illegal.  He cannot be denied to be a 
very impartial Judge ; for right or wrong 
are all one to him.  He takes Bribes, as pious 
Men give Alms, with so much Caution, that 
his right Hand never knows what his left receives.