HARANGUER
 Is one, that is so delighted with the sweet 
  Sound of his own Tongue, that   William 
Prynne   will sooner lend an Ear, than he, to any 
Thing else. His Measure of Talk is till his 
Wind is spent; and then he is not silenced, 
but becalmed. His Ears have catched the 
Itch of his Tonuge, and though he scratch 
them, like a Deast with his Hoof, he finds a 
Pleasure in it. A silenced Minister, has more 
Mercy on the Government in a secure Conventicle, than he has on the Company, that he is 
in. He shakes a Man by the Ear, as a Dog 
does a Pig, and never looses his Hold, till he 
has tired himself, as well as his Patient. He 
does not talk to a Man, but attack him, and 
whomsoever he can get into his Hands he lays 
violent Language on. If he can he will run 
a Man up against a Wall, and hold him at a 
Bay by the Buttons, which he handles as bad 
as he does his Person, or the Business he treats 
upon. When he finds him begin to sink, he 
holds him by the Cloaths, and feels him as a 
Butcher does a Calf, before he kills him. He 
is a walking Pillory, and crucifies more Ears 
than a dozen standing ones. He will hold any 
Argument rather than his Tongue, and maintain both sides at his own Charge; for he will 
tell you what you will say, though, perhaps, 
he does not intende to give you leave. He 
lugs Men by the Ears, as they correct Children 
in   Scotland,   and will make them tingle, while 
he talks with them, as some say they will do, 
whena  Man is talked of in his Absence. When 
he talks to a Man, he comes up close to him, 
and like an old Solider lets fly in his Face, or 
claps the Bore of his Pistol to his Ear, and 
whispers aloud, that he may be sure not to 
miss his Mark. His tongue is always in Motion, tho very seldom to the Purpose, like a 
Barber's Scissers, which are always snipping, 
as well when they do not cut, as when they 
do. His Tongue is like a Bagpipe Drone, that 
has no Stop, but makes a continual ugly Noise, 
himself. He never leaves a Man until he has 
run him down, and then he winds a Death 
over him. A Sow-Gelder's Horn is not so 
terrible to Dogs and Cats, as he is to all that 
know him. His Way of Argument is to talk 
all, and hear to Contradiction. First he gives 
his Antagonist the Length of the Wind, and 
then, let him make his Approaches inf he can, 
he is sure to be beforehand with him. Of all 
dissolute Diseases the Running of the Tongue is 
the worst, and the hardest to be cured. If he 
happen at any time to be at a Stand, and any 
Man else begins to speak, he presently drowns 
him with his Noise, as a Water-Dog makes a 
Duck dive: for when you think he has done 
he falls one, and lets fly again, like a Gun, that 
will discharge nine Times with one Loading. 
He is a Rattlesnake, that with his Noise gives 
Men warning to avoid him, otherwise he will 
make them wish they had. He is, like a Bell, 
good for nothing but to make a Noise. He is 
like common Fame, that speaks most and 
knows least, Lord   Brooks,   or a Wildgoose always cackling when he is upon the Wing. 
His Tongue is like any Kind of Carriage, the 
less Weight it bears, the faster and easier it 
goes. He is so full of Words, that they run 
over, and are thrown away to no Purpose; and 
so empty of Things, or Sense, that his Dryness has made his Leaks so wide, whatsoever is 
put in hi runs out immediately. He is so 
long in delivering himself, that those that hear 
him desire to be delivered too, or dispatched 
out of their Pain. He makes his Discourse the 
longer with often repeating   to be short,   and talks 
much of   in fine,   but never means to come near 
it. 
