QUAKER

Is a scoundrel saint, of an Order without
Founder, Vow, or Rule ; for he will not
swear, nor be tyed to any Thing, but his own
Humour.  He is the Link-Boy of the sectaries,
and talks much of his Light, but puts it under
a Bushel, for nobody can see it but himself.  His
Religion is but the cold Fit of an Ague, and his
Zeal of a contrary Temper to that of all others,
yet produces the same Effects ; as cold Iron in
Greenland, they say, burns as well as hot;
which makes him delight, like a salamander,
to live in the Fire of Persecution.  He works
out his salvation, not with Fear, but Confidence
and Trembling.  His Profession is but a Kind
of Winter-Religion ; and the Original of it as
uncertain as the hatching of Woodcocks, for
no Man can tell from whence it came.  He
Vapours much of the Light within him, but
no such Thing appears, unless he means as he
is light-headed.  He believes he takes up the
Cross in being cross to all Mankind.  He delights in Persecution, as some old extravagant
Fornicators find a Lechery in being whipt;
and has no Ambition but to go to Heaven in
what he calls a fiery Chariot, that is, a Woodmonger’s Faggot Cart.  You may perceive he
has a Crack in his skull by the flat Twang of
his Nose, and the great Care he takes to keep
his Hat on, lest his sickly Brains, if he have
any, should take Cold at it.  He believes his
Doctrine to be heavenly, because it agrees perfectly with the Motus Trepidationis.  All his
Hopes are in the Turks overrunning of Christendom, because he has heard they count Fools
and Madmen saints, and doubts not to pass
muster with them for great Abilities that Way.
This makes him believe he can convert the Turk,
tho’ he could do no good on the Pope, or the
Presbyterian.  Nothing comes so near his quaking Liturgy, as the Papistical Possessions of the
Devil, with which it conforms in Discipline
exact.  His Church, or rather Chapel, is built
upon a flat sand, without superior or inferior
in it, and not upon a Rock, which is never
found without great Inequalities.  Next Demoniacs he most resembles the Reprobate, who
are said to be condemned to Weeping and
Gnashing of Teeth.  There was a Botcher of
their Church, that renounced his Trade and
turned Preacher, because he held it superstitious to sit cross-legged.  His Devotion is but a
Kind of spiritual Palsy, that proceeds from a
Distemper in the Brain, where the Nerves are
rooted.  They abhor the Church of England,
but conform exactly with those primitive Fathers of their Church, that heretofore gave Answers at the Devil’s Oracles, in which they observed the very same Ceremony of quaking and
and gaping now practised by our modern Enthusiasts at their Exorcisms, rather than Exercises of Devotion.  He sucks in the Air like
a Pair of Bellows, and blows his inward Light
with it, till he dung Fire, as Cattle do in Lincolnshire.  The general Ignorance of their
whole Party make it appear, that whatsoever
their Zeal may be, it is not according to Knowledge.