TRAVELLER

 Is a Native of all Countries, and an Alien at 
 Home.  He flies from the Place where he 
was hatched, like a Wildgoose, and prefers all 
others before it.  He has no Quarrel to it, but 
because he was born in it, and like a Bastard, 
he is ashamed of his Mother, because she is of 
him. He is a Merchant, that makes Voyages 
into foreign Nations, to drive a Trade in Wisdom and Politics, and is is not for his Credit 
to have it thoughts, he has made an ill Return, 
which must be, if he should allow of any of 
the Growth of his own Country.  This makes 
him quick and blow up himself with Admiration of foreign Parts, and a generous Contempt of Home, that all Men may admire, at 
least, the means he has had of Improvement, 
and deplore their own Defects. His Observations are like a Sieve, that lets the finer Flour 
pass, and retains only the Bran of Things; 
for his whole Return of Wisdom proves to be 
but Affectation, a perishable Commodity, which 
he will never be able to put off. He velieve 
all Men's Wits are at a stand, that stay at 
Home, and only those advanced, that travel; 
as if Change of Pasture did make great Politicians, as well as fat Calves. He pities the little 
knowledge of Truth which those have, that 
have not seen the World abroad, forgetting, 
that at the same time he tells us, how little 
Credit is to be given to his own Relations and 
those of others, that speak and write of their 
Travels. He has worn his own Language to 
Rags, and patched it up with Scraps and Ends 
of foreign--This serves him for Wit, and they applaud one another accordingly. He believes 
this Raggedness of his Discourse a great Demonstration of the Improvement of his Knowledge ; 
as   Inns-of-Court   Men intimate their Proficiency 
in the Law by the Tatters of their Gowns 
All the Wit he brought Home with him is like 
foreign Coin, of a baser Alloy than our own, 
and so will not pass here without great Loss. 
All noble Creatures, that are famous in any 
one Country, degenerate by being transplanted; 
and those of mean Value only improve--If it 
hold with Men, he falls among the Number 
of the latter, and his Improvements are little 
to his Credit. All he can say for himself is, 
his Mind was sick of a Consumption, and 
change of Air has cured him : For all his other 
Improvements have only been to eat in . . . . 
and talk with those he did not understand; to 
hold Intelligence with all Gazettes, and from 
the Sight of Statesmen in the Street unriddle 
the Intrigues of all their Councils, to make a 
wondrous Progress into Knowledge by riding 
with a Messenger, and advance In Politics by 
mounting of a Mule, run through all Sorts of 
Learning in a Waggon, and found all Depths 
of Arts in  Felucca, ride post into the Secrets 
of all States, and grow acquainted with their 
close Designs in Inns and Hostleries; for certainly there is great Virtue in Highways and 
Hedges to make an able Man, and a good 
Prospect cannot but let him see far into Things. 
