
VINTNER

HANGs out his Bush to shew he has not
good Wine ; for that, the Proverb says,
needs it not.  If wine were as necessary as
Bread, he would stand in the Pillory for selling
false Measure, as well as Bakers do for false
Weight ; but since it is at every Man’s Choice
to come to his House or not, those that do, are
guilty of half the Injuries he does them, and
he believes the rest to be none at all, because
no Injury can be done to him, that is willing
to take it.  He had rather sell bad Wine, than
good that stands him in no more, for it makes
Men sooner drunk, and then they are the easier
over-reckoned.  By the Knaveries he acts
above-board, which every Man sees, one may
easily take a Measure of those he does under
Ground in his Cellar ; for he that will pick
a Man’s Pocket to his Face, will not stick to
use him worse in private when he knows nothing of it.  When he has poisoned his
Wines he raises his Price, and to make amends
for that abates his Measure, for he thinks it
a greater sin to commit Murder for small
Gains, than a valuable Consideration.  He
does not only spoil and destroy his Wines, but
an ancient reverend Proverb, with brewing and
racking, that says, In vino veritas, for there
is no Truth in his, but all false and sophisticated; for he can counterfeit Wine as cunningly
as Apelles did Grapes, and cheat Men with it,
as he did Birds.  He brings every Bottle of
Wine he draws to the Bar, to confess it to be
a Cheat, and afterwards puts himself upon
the Mercy of the Company.  He is an Antichristian Cheat; for Christ turned Water into
Wine, and he turns Wine into Water.  He
scores all his Reckonings upon two Tables
made like those of the ten Commandments, that
he may be put in Mind to break them as oft as
possibly he can ; especially that of stealing and
bearing false Witness against his Neighbour,
when he draws him bad Wine and swears it is
good, and that he can take more for the Pipe
than the Wine will yield him by the Bottle,
a Trick that a Jesuit taught him to cheat his
own Conscience with.  When he is found to
over-reckon notoriously, he has one common
Evasion for all, and that is to say it was a
Mistake, by which he means, that he thought
they had not been sober enough to discover it;
for if it had past, there had been no Error at
all in the Case.