AN
ALDERMAN

H^2^As taken his Degree in Cheating, and
the highest of his Faculty ; or paid for
refusing his MANDAMUs.  He is a Peer of the
City, and a Member of their upper House,
Who, as soon as he arrives at so many thousand
Pounds, is bound by the Charter to serve the
Public with so much Understanding, what
shift soever he make to raise it, and wear a
Chain about his Neck like a Raindeer, or in
Default to commute, and make satisfaction in
ready Money, the best Reason of the Place;
for which hi has the Name only, like a titular
Prince, and is an Alderman extraordinary.  But
if his Wife can prevail with him to stand, he
becomes one of the City-supporters, and, like
the Unicorn in the King's Arms, wears a Chain
about his Neck very right-worshipfully.  He
wears scarlet, as the Whore of Babylon does,
not for her honesty, but the Rank and Quality
she is of among the Wicked,  When he sits
as a Judge in his Court he is absolute, and uses
arbitrary Power ;  for he is not bound to un-
derstand what he does, nor render an Account
why he gives Judgment on one side rather
than another ;  but his Will is sufficient to stand
for his Reason, to all Intents and Purposes.
He does no public Business without eating and
drinking, and never meets about Matters of Im-
portance, but the Cramming his Inside is the
most weighty Part of the Work of the Day.
He dispatches no public Affair until he has
thoroughly dined upon it, and is fully satisfied
with Quince-Pye and Custard :  for Men are
wiser, the Italians say, after their Bellies are
full, than when they are fasting, and he is very
cautious to omit no Occasion of improving his
Parts that Way.  He is so careful of the In-
terest of his Belly, and manages it so indus-
triously, that in a little space it grows great
and takes Place of all the rest of his Members,
and becomes so powerful, that they will never
be in a Condition to rebel against it any more.
He is cloathed in scarlet the Livery of his sins,
like the rich Glutton, to put him in Mind of
what Means he came to his Wealth and Pre-
ferment by.  He makes a Trade of his Eat-
ing, and, like a Cock, scrapes when he feeds ;
for the Public pays for all and more, which he
and his Brethren share among themselves ;  for
they never make a dry Reckoning.  When he
comes to be Lord-Mayor he does not keep a
great House, but a very great House-warming
for a whole Year ; for though he invites all the
Companies in the City he does not treat them,
but they club to entertain him, and pay the
Reckoning beforehand.  His Fur-gown makes
him look a great deal bigger than he is, like
the Feathers of an Owl, and when he pulls
it off, he looks as if he were fallen away, or
like a Rabbet, had his skin pulled off.
